---
layout: default
title: Code-behind class
nav_order: 3
---

# Code-behind class
You can combine FXML markup with a Java or Kotlin class (called a <b>code-behind class</b>), allowing you to
combine declarative markup and imperative code. This can be done either with a standalone `.fxml` file plus a
Java or Kotlin class, or with markup code embedded directly into Java or Kotlin source code by using the
`@ComponentView` annotation.

## FXML source file
In order to add a code-behind class to a FXML source file, create two files in the same package:
* `com/sample/MyControl.fxml`
* `com/sample/MyControl.java`

In `MyControl.fxml`, add the [`fx:subclass`](reference/subclass.html) attribute to the root element,
and specify the fully-qualified name of the code-behind class.
<div class="filename">com/sample/MyControl.fxml</div>
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?import javafx.scene.layout.StackPane?>
<?import javafx.scene.control.Button?>

<StackPane xmlns="http://javafx.com/javafx" xmlns:fx="http://jfxcore.org/fxml/2.0"
           fx:subclass="com.sample.MyControl">
    <Button fx:id="myButton1"/>
</StackPane>
```

In `MyControl.java`, create a new class that extends `MyControlBase`.
<div class="filename">com/sample/MyControl.java</div>
```java
package com.sample;

public class MyControl extends MyControlBase {
    public MyControl() {
        initializeComponent();
        myButton1.setText("Hello!");
    }
}
```

## Embedded markup
For embedded FXML markup, the code-behind class is the class being annotated with the `@ComponentView` annotation:
```java
package com.sample;

import javafx.scene.control.Button;
import javafx.scene.layout.StackPane;
import org.jfxcore.markup.ComponentView;

@ComponentView("""
    <StackPane>
        <Button fx:id="myButton"/>
    </StackPane>
""")
public class MyControl extends MyControlBase {

    public MyControl() {
        initializeComponent();
        myButton.setText("Hello!");
    }
}
```

{: .note }
> The `MyControlBase` class is generated by the FXML compiler. It contains the compiled markup code, whether that
> markup comes from a standalone `.fxml` file or from a `@ComponentView` annotation.
>
> If the generated class is missing for a standalone `.fxml` source, run the `:processFxml` task in your Gradle
> build to create the class. If it is missing for embedded markup, make sure that annotation processing is enabled
> in your build; see [Enable annotation processing](getting-started/embedded.html#enable-annotation-processing).
>
> By default, the name of the generated markup class corresponds to the name of the FXML file or the name of the
> class annotated with `@ComponentView`, including the `Base` suffix. This can be changed with the
> [`fx:className`](reference/className.html) attribute.

## Initializing the scene graph with `initializeComponent`
The scene graph specified in the FXML document is initialized by the compiler-generated `initializeComponent()` method.
It is important that you call this method in the constructor of the code-behind class, as otherwise the components
that make up the scene graph will never be instantiated.

{: .highlight}
> You should call `initializeComponent()` after you initialize all of the state which the FXML scene graph depends on,
> but before you actually access the FXML scene graph.

## What is the relationship between `fx:subclass`, `fx:controller`, and `fx:root`?
`fx:controller` and `fx:root` are both directives of the FXML 1.0 format, and are not available in the FXML 2.0 format.
[`fx:subclass`](reference/subclass.html) is a new directive that allows combining markup and imperative code.
This is similar to the `fx:root` directive, but doesn't require using `FXMLLoader` to load the markup at runtime.

FXML 2.0 always compiles down to scene graph nodes; it does not support the markup/controller model of FXML 1.0
out of the box. Instead, it is left to developers to implement their favorite architectural patterns.
FXML 2.0 is well-suited to implement patterns like
[MVC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93controller) or
[MVVM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93viewmodel).